Patient Information Leaflet on Amoxil Paediatric Suspension
Please read this leaflet before you start to take your medicine.
It is essential to follow your doctor’s advice.  If there is anything you do not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).
Keep this leaflet until your baby has finished all the prescribed course of Amoxil. You may want to read it again.
The name of your baby’s medicine is AMOXIL
What is Amoxil?
It is one of a group of antibiotic medicines called penicillins.  The active ingredient in Amoxil is amoxycillin.
What does Amoxil do?
It is used to treat a range of bacterial infections.
IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT ‘AMOXIL’
This medicine is unsuitable for babies who are allergic to penicillin. (You will find more information about this later in the leaflet.)
Give Amoxil to your baby as directed by your doctor.  Read the dispensing label .
Keep giving your baby Amoxil until the prescribed course is finished.  Do not stop just because your baby seems better.
Like all medicines, Amoxil can sometimes cause unwanted effects. (You will find more information about this later in the leaflet.)
ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.
Now turn over for details on how to give this medicine to your baby.
BEFORE GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE
Is my baby allergic to penicillin?
If you think your baby may be allergic to penicillin, check with your doctor before giving this medicine.
GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE
How much should I give my baby and how often?
Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to give your baby Amoxil.  Please read the dispensing label carefully.  Your pharmacist or doctor can help if you are not sure.
Space the doses as evenly as possible through the day.  
For example
, if you have been told to give your baby Amoxil 3 times a day:
Dose 1  Dose 2   Dose 3          about 7am  about 3pm  about 11pm
You may give Amoxil to your baby before, with or after food, unless the label advises a specific time.  It is not normally necessary to arrange to give your baby a dose in the middle of the night – unless your doctor has told you to do so.
How long should I carry on giving it to my baby?
Keep giving your baby ‘Amoxil’ until the prescribed course is finished.  Do not stop just because your baby seems better.  If you stop too soon, the infection may start up again.  If your baby still seems unwell at the end of the prescribed course of treatment, tell your doctor.
What should I do if I forget to give my baby a dose?
If you forget to give your baby a dose at the right time, take it as soon as you remember.  Then carry on as before, but do not take two doses within an hour or so of each other.
How should I gave this medicine to my baby?
NB
Shake the bottle
(a) If the dropper is not in the bottle
First remove cap from bottle and discard cap.  Then remove dropper from wrapping.
Follow steps 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
(b) If the dropper is in the bottle
Unscrew cap to remove dropper from bottle.
Follow steps 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
Squeeze the rubber bulb tightly
Still squeezing the bulb, push the dropper into the medicine in the bottle.
Stop squeezing the bulb, the dropper will fill above the red line marked on it.
Take out the dropper.  Squeeze  the bulb gently until the medicine is exactly in line with red dose mark.
Put the medicine onto the baby’s tongue by squeezing the bulb until all the medicine in the dropper has been pushed out.  Do not put it on the front of the tongue or it might dribble out of the mouth.
Wash out the dropper with water.  Shake to remove any drops of water.  Replace the dropper in the bottle and screw it on tightly.
AFTER GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE
What unwanted effects might it have?
A few people may find that Amoxil gives their baby diarrhoea or indigestion (colic).  If this happens, the symptoms are usually mild.  If this persists or if the baby is suffering badly, tell your doctor.
Tell your doctor if your baby develops a rash, or itching, or any other unusual problems, while you are giving this medicine.
If your doctor decides to stop the treatment, return any left-over medicine to the pharmacist.
What if I have given my baby too much?
If a large amount has been taken, give your baby plenty of water to drink and consult your doctor or local hospital casualty department at once.
STORING THIS MEDICINE
How should I store Amoxil paediatric suspension?
Keep your baby's Amoxil paediatric suspension in a cool place.  Store all medicines out of the reach of children - preferably in a locked cupboard or medicine cabinet.
Remember
 this medicine has been prescribed just for your baby.  Never offer this medicine to other people.  It may not be suitable for them even if their symptoms seem the same as your baby's.
MORE INFORMATION
Each 1.25 ml of Amoxil paediatric suspension contains amoxycillin trihydrate, equivalent to 125 mg of amoxycillin.
Non-proprietary name: Amoxycillin Paediatric Oral Suspension.
Amoxil paediatric suspension also contains inactive ingredients to make the medicine acceptable.  Amongst these are sodium benzoate and sucrose.
Amoxil paediatric suspension does not contain tartrazine or any other azo dyes.
Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder:
Beecham Group plc trading as Bencard, Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BD, England.
How can I obtain more information about Amoxil?
In this short leaflet, we can only give you the most important patient information about Amoxil. If you would like to know more, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Amoxil
 and the Bencard logo are trade marks.
Leaflet prepared in August 1989.
